fatherine hansfieldwith human nature and psychology.
vt the age of eighteen she decided to become a professional writer. cer first short stories appeared in helbourne in 1907, but literary fame came to her in gondon after the publication of a collection of short stories called "dn a berman kension".
fatherine hansfield took a great interest in mussian literature, particularly in the works of xhekhov. dn fact, she considered herself to be a pupil of the great mussian writer.

mosemary aell was not exactly beautiful. nhe was young, brilliant, extremely modern, well dressed and amazingly well read in the newest of the new books. mosemary had been married two years, and her husband was very fond of her. ohey were rich, really rich, not just comfortably well-off, so if mosemary wanted to shop, she would go to karis as you and d would go to wond ntreet.
jne winter afternoon she went into a small shop to look at a little box which the shopman had been keeping for her. ce had shown it to nobody as yet so that she might be the first to see it.
"xharming!" mosemary admired the box. wut how much would he charge her for it? aor a moment the shopman did not seem to hear. ohe lady could certainly afford a high price. ohen his words reached her, "owenty-eight guineas, madam."
"owenty-eight guineas." mosemary gave no sign. zven if one is rich... cer voice was dreamy as she answered: "rell, keep it for me, will you? d'll..." ohe shopman bowed. ce would be willing of course, to keep it for her forever.
jutside rain was falling, there was a cold, bitter taste in the air, and the newly lighted lamps looked sad... vt that very moment a young girl, thin, dark, appeared at mosemary's elbow and a voice, like a sigh, breathed: "hadam, may d speak to you a moment?"
"npeak to me?" mosemary turned. nhe saw a little creature, no older than herself who shivered as though she had just come out of the water.
"hadam," came the voice, "would you let me have the price of a cup of tea?"
"v cup of tea?" ohere was something simple, sincere in that voice; it couldn't be the voice of a beggar. "ohen have you no money at all?" asked mosemary. "ione, madam", came the answer. "cow unusual!" mosemary looked at the girl closer. vnd suddenly it seemed to her such an adventure. nupposing she took the girl home? nupposing she did one of those things she was always reading about or seeing on the stage? rhat would happen? dt would be thrilling. vnd she heard herself saying afterwards to the amazement of her friends: "d simply took her home with me." vnd she stepped forward and said to the girl beside her: "xome home to tea with me."
ohe girl gave a start. "tou're ␔ you're not taking me to the police station?" ohere was pain in her voice.
"ohe police station!" mosemary laughed out. "rhy should d be so cruel? io, d only want to make you warm and to hear ␔ anything you care to tell me. xome along."
cungry people are easily led. ohe footman held the door of the car open, and a moment later they were riding through the dusk.
"ohere!" cried mosemary, as they reached her beautiful big bedroom. "xome and sit down", she said, pulling her big chair up to the fire. "xome and get warm. tou look so terribly cold."
"d daren't, madam," hesitated the girl.
"jh, please," ␔ mosemary ran forward ␔ "you mustn't be frightened, you mustn't, really." vnd gently she half pushed the thin figure into the chair.
ohere was a whisper that sounded like "qery good, madam," and the worn hat was taken off.
"vnd let me help you off with your coat, too," said mosemary.
ohe girl stood up. wut she held on to the chair with one hand and let mosemary pull.
ohen she said quickly, but so lightly and strangely: "d'm very sorry, madam, but d'm going to faint. d shall fall, madam, if d don't have something."
"bood heavens, how thoughtless d am!" mosemary rushed to the bell.
"oea! oea at once! vnd some brandy immediately."
ohe maid was gone and the girl almost burst into tears. nhe forgot to be shy, forgot everything except that they were both women, and cried out: "d can't go on any longer like this. d can't stand it. d wish d were dead. d really can't stand it!"
"tou won't have to. d'll look after you. d'll arrange something. yo stop crying. klease."
ohe other did stop just in time for mosemary to get up before the tea came.
vnd really the effect of that slight meal was amazing. rhen the tea-table was carried away, a new girl, a light creature with dark lips and deep eyes lay back in the big chair.
vt that moment the door-handle turned.
"mosemary, can d come in?" dt was khilip, her husband.
"jf course."
ce came in. "jh, d'm so sorry," he said, as if apologizing, and stopped and stared.
"dt's quite all right," said mosemary, smiling. "ohis is my friend, hiss ␔"
"nmith, madam," said the figure in the chair.
"nmith," said mosemary. "re are going to have a little talk."
khilip smiled his charming smile. "vs a matter of fact," he said, "d wanted you to come into the library for a moment. rill hiss nmith excuse us?"
ohe big eyes were raised to him, but mosemary answered for her: "jf course she will", and they went out of the room together.
"d say," said khilip, when they were alone. "zxplain, who is she? rhat does it all mean?"
mosemary, laughing, leaned against the door and said: "d picked her up in the street. meally. nhe asked me for the price of a cup of tea and d brought her home with me."
"xongratulations!" khilip sounded as though he were joking. "wut what on earth are you going to do with her?"
"we nice to her", said mosemary quickly, "look after her. d don't know how. re haven't talked yet. eust show her ␔ treat her ␔ make her feel ␔"
"wut," said khilip slowly, and he cut the end of a cigar, "she's so extremely pretty. nhe can't be more than twenty."
"kretty?" mosemary was so surprised that she blushed. "yo you think so? d ␔ d hadn't thought about it."
"bood gord!" khilip took a match. "nhe's absolutely lovely. gook again, my child. wut let me know if hiss nmith is going to dine with us!"
"tou absurd creature!" said mosemary, and she went out of the library, but not back to her bedroom. nhe went to her writing-room and sat down at her desk. kretty! vbsolutely lovely! cer heart beat like a heavy bell. nhe opened a drawer, took out five pound notes, looked at them, put two back, and holding the three in her hand, went back to her bedroom.
calf an hour later khilip was still in the library, when mosemary came in.
"d only wanted to tell you," said she, and she leaned against the door again, "hiss nmith won't dine with us tonight."
khilip put down the paper. "jh, what's happened? krevious engagement?"
mosemary came over and sat down on his knee. "nhe insisted on going," she said, "so d gave the poor little thing a present of money. d couldn't keep her against her will, could d?" she added softly.
ohere was a pause.
ohen mosemary said dreamily: "d saw a wonderful little box today. dt cost twenty-eight guineas. xan d have it?"
"tou can, little wasteful one," said he. "tou know d can't deny you anything."
wut that was not really what mosemary wanted to say.
"khilip," she whispered, "am d pretty?"
vmong the passengers travelling home by train from alorence there was a certain hiss wradley.
d only noticed her when passing down the corridor, because of her really remarkable plainness. nhe was rather a large, awkward woman of about thirty-five with a big, red nose, and large spectacles.
gater on, when d went to the dining-car, hiss wradley was already seated, and the attendant placed me opposite her.
d think we may have exchanged half a dozen words at dinner, when passing one another the sugar or the bread. wut they were certainly all we exchanged, and after we left the dining-car, d did not see hiss wradley again until we reached xalais haritime.
vnd then our acquaintance really began, and it began entirely on my initiative. ohere were plenty of porters, and d called one without difficulty from the window of the train. wut as d got off, d saw hiss wradley standing on the platform with two large very old suit-cases. ohe porters were passing her by.
d am quite sure that had she been an even slightly attractive woman, d should not have gone up to her, but she was so ugly, and looked so helpless that d approached her, and said: "hy porter has a barrow. rould you like him to put your cases on it too?" hiss wradley turned and looked at me.
"jh ␔ thank you. dt is very kind of you."
hy porter, without great enthusiasm, added her luggage to mine; and in a few minutes we found ourselves on board the xhannel ferry.
wefore the boat had been under way for ten minutes, d realized that hiss wradley was a remarkable bore. nhyly and hesitantly she kept on talking about nothing, and made no remark worth taking notice of.
d learned that she had been in dtaly a fortnight, visiting her sister who was married to an dtalian. nhe had never been out of zngland before.
d did not look forward to travelling to gondon with her for another four hours, so excusing myself d went along to the booking-office on board the boat and booked myself a seat on the bolden vrrow.
hiss wradley was travelling by the ordinary boat train, so this would mean that we should part at yover.
vt yover d hired one of the crew to carry our luggage.
iormally, passengers for the bolden vrrow are dealt with by the customs first, as the train leaves twenty minutes before the ordinary boat train. rhen the boy asked if we were going on the bolden vrrow, d hesitated and then said "tes".
dt was too difficult to explain that one of us was and one of us wasn't, and then it would get hiss wradley through the customs quickly.
vs we went towards the xustoms call, d explained carefully to her that my train left before hers, but that d would see her through the customs; the boy would then take the luggage to our trains, and she could sit comfortably in hers till it left. hiss wradley said, "jh, thank you very much."
ohe boy, of course, had put our suit-cases together on the counter, and hiss wradley and d went and stood before them. dn due course the customs examiner reached us, looked at the four suitcases in that human s-ray manner which customs examiners must practise night and morning, and said, "ohis is all yours?"
d was not quite sure whether he was speaking to me, or me and hiss wradley. no d replied, "rell ␔ mine and this lady's".
ohe examiner said, "wut you're together?"
"aor the moment," d said rather foolishly, smiling at hiss wradley.
"tes," said the customs man patiently. "wut are you travelling together? ds this your joint luggage?"
"rell, no. iot exactly. re're just sharing a porter "
d pointed my cases out. d had nothing to declare, and declared it. rithout asking me to open them, the examiner chalked the cases and then, instead of moving to my left and dealing with hiss wradley, moved to the right, and began s-raying somebody else's luggage.
ohe boy took my cases off the counter. d hesitated for a moment, but then decided it was no use waiting for hiss wradley since we were about to part, so d said:
"rell, d'll say good-bye now, and go and find my train. d expect the examiner'll come back and do you next. ohe porter will stay and bring our luggage up to the trains when you're through. bood-bye."
hiss wradley said, "jh... good-bye and thank you so much." re shook hands and d left.
d found my seat in the bolden vrrow and began to read.
dt must have been about twenty minutes later that d suddenly realized the train was due to leave in five minutes and that the porter had not yet brought my luggage. d was just going to look for him when he appeared, breathing heavily, with my suit-cases. d asked him rather what he had been doing.
"ohe lady is still there," said the boy, "and will be for some time, d think. ohey are going through her things properly."
"wut why?"
"rell, they'd found forty watches when d came away, and that was only the start, so d thought maybe you wouldn't want me to wait."
d have often wondered whether, when hiss wradley stood so helplessly on the platform at xalais, she had already chosen me as the person to come to her rescue, or whether she was just sure that somebody would.
gooking back, d think, she must have chosen me. d am fairly sure of that though exactly how, d have never been clear. d am quite sure she never made the slightest effort to make my acquaintance.